# Bioleaching of copper-sulfide

## References

1) https://doi.org/10.1016/S1572-4409(99)80045-5
2) https://doi.org/10.1016/S0304-386X(00)00119-5


## Instructions

1) Init Heap( d, N )
2) Stack Heap => x, y, t, mesh
3) Set boundary conditions
4) Call diffs() => dx, dy, dt
5) Call heap.init_ops( accuracy )
6) Define PDE diff. operator
7) Call heap.energy_exchange(source, bc, operator)

## The model attempts to integrate the following processes:

### Reactions

1) Chemical leaching reaction in which ferric iron oxidises the sulphide mineral (e.g. chalcocite, pyrite).
2) Microbial oxidation reaction in which ferrous iron, a by-product of the chemical leaching reaction, is converted back into ferric iron.

This process was modelled using the Michaelis-Meneten equation with (liquid) oxygen as the limiting substrate. Although a constant microbial population density was assumed, the temperature dependence of the (maximum) respiration rate was accounted for based on experimental data.

### Energy transfer

1) Transport by downward liquid flow (e.g. of sulphate solution)
2) Heat transfer due to conduction
3) Flow of gas throughout the bed (including water evaporation)
4) Heat generated by the leaching reactions

### Fluid Transport

1) In accordance with Darcy's law and the added assumption of irrotational flow, the streamlines for gas transport were calcuated using a density distribution.
2) A constant permeability and steady liquid irrigation rate were assumed. 
3) The porosity occupied by the gas and the relative permeability were calculated as a function of the water contend in the ore bed.

### Oxygen Balance

1) Transport due to molecular diffusion
2) Convection based on the streamlines of fluid transport
3) Rate of oxygen consumption (Michaelis-Meneten equation)
4) Proportion of Oxygen in liquid phase modelled using Henry's Law
